# NYC-MTA
The NYC subway system continues to serve as the most important mode of transport for the people living or working in NYC for their daily commute and running errands. Hence, we believe that it is important to understand the ridership behaviour to strategize infrastructure improvements, plan business activities in and around the metro stations and other steps that are required to enhance the commuters experience.
Also, we would like to predict the number of Entries to a station as NYC subway stations are one of the busiest public transit so that this analysis can be used to figure out which station would be the busiest and can be used by any public departments like for example Police patrolling on the stations with highest entries in case of any public emergencies.

I have come across many NYC-MTA projects where analysis has been only carried out for a month or maybe couple of months . The reason behind this could be the availablity of data on the web. The data is readily available however its in patches or you could say files .
When i say files or patches it means that the NYC transportation department uploads the data  on every 4th hour of the day. So downloading the data for an entire year individually is a task. By web scrapping, we developed a python code to automatically download all the files and combine into one file. Once the download was complete, the python notebook attached will show the steps implemented for Data preprocessing and further analysis.  So in order to automate the process of downloading multiple individual files , web scrapping technique was used.
